README.md, before:

[![JetBrains Plugin Version](https://img.shields.io/jetbrains/plugin/v/com.github.clojure-repl?style=flat-square&labelColor=91B6FB&color=93DA52&link=https%3A%2F%2Fplugins.jetbrains.com%2Fplugin%2F23073-clojure-repl)](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/23073-clojure-repl)
[![Slack community](https://img.shields.io/badge/Slack-chat-blue?style=flat-square&labelColor=91B6FB&color=93DA52)](https://clojurians.slack.com/archives/C06DZSPDCPJ)

<img src="images/logo.svg" width="180" align="right">

# clojure-repl-intellij

<!-- Plugin description -->

Free OpenSource IntelliJ plugin for Clojure REPL development. 

Checkout all available [features](https://github.com/afucher/clojure-repl-intellij#features)

<!-- Plugin description end -->

![Clojure LSP Intellij](images/demo.png)

---
## Getting Started
After installing [the plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/23073-clojure-repl) in IntelliJ, you can add a REPL to your Run
configurations.

### Local: Start a nREPL server from IntelliJ
1. Go to `Run` > `Edit Configurations`
2. If you don't have any existing configurations, click `Add new...` or `Add new run configuration`. Otherwise, click the `+` ("Add New Configuration").
3. Select `Clojure REPL` > `Local`
4. Optional: Name your Configuration (e.g. "Local REPL")
5. Click `OK`


### Remote: Connecting to an existing nREPL process
1. Ensure you have an existing nREPL process running outside IntelliJ
2. Within Intellij, go to `Run` > `Edit Configurations`
3. If you don't have any existing configurations, click `Add new...` or `Add new run configuration`. Otherwise, click the `+` ("Add New Configuration").
4. Select `Clojure REPL` > `Remote`
5. In the boxes for `Host` and `Port` copy and paste the values from your existing nREPL process
6. Optional: Name your Configuration (e.g. "Remote REPL")
7. Click `OK`

## Features

- Start a nREPL server from IntelliJ
- Connect to an existing nREPL process
- Load file to REPL (`alt/opt + shift + L`)
- Eval code at point (`alt/opt + shift + E`)
- Eval defun at point (`alt/opt + shift + D`)
- Run ns tests  (`alt/opt + shift + T` `alt/opt + shift + N`)
- Run test at cursor (`alt/opt + shift + T` `alt/opt + shift + T`)
- Re-run last test  (`alt/opt + shift + T` `alt/opt + shift + A`)
- Switch to file namespace (`alt/opt + shift + N`)
- Clear REPL output (`alt/opt + shift + R` `alt/opt + shift + C`)
- Refresh all ns (`alt/opt + shift + R` `alt/opt + shift + A`)
- Refresh changed ns (`alt/opt + shift + R` `alt/opt + shift + R`)
- Stop (interrupt) evaluation of REPL session (`alt/opt + shift + R` `alt/opt + shift + S`)
- Entry history navigation in REPL (`ctrl + PAGE_UP` or `ctrl + PAGE_DOWN`)

### Soon

- Customize REPL UI

## Contributing

Contributions are very welcome, check the [issues page](https://github.com/afucher/clojure-repl-intellij/issues) for more information about what are good first issues or open an issue describing the desired support.


## Developing
install babashka from https://github.com/babashka/babashka#installation

`bb run-ide` to spawn a new IntelliJ session with the plugin.

or

`bb install-plugin` to build the plugin, and install it from disk in IntelliJ automatically. You need to pass the IntelliJ plugins path:  
e.g: ```bb install-plugin /home/youruser/.local/share/JetBrains/IdeaIC2024.3```

or

`bb build-plugin` to build the plugin, then install it manually from disk in IntelliJ, the zip should be on `./build/distributions/*.zip`.

## Release

1. `bb tag x.y.z` to tag and push the new tag
2. `bb publish-plugin` to publish to Jetbrains Marketplace (requires JETBRAINS_TOKEN on env).

Commit message:

Enhance evaluation and namespace control (#141)
* isolate REPL namespace from files

* add doc about how eval and ns works in the plugin

* evaluate ns before eval first code and when ns changes

* move logic to evaluate ns to nrepl/eval

* allow change ns from editor buffer

* refactor code of nrepl/eval

* add default when file does not have ns form


Co-authored-by: Eric Dallo <ericdallo06@hotmail.com>

README.md, after:

[![JetBrains Plugin Version](https://img.shields.io/jetbrains/plugin/v/com.github.clojure-repl?style=flat-square&labelColor=91B6FB&color=93DA52&link=https%3A%2F%2Fplugins.jetbrains.com%2Fplugin%2F23073-clojure-repl)](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/23073-clojure-repl)
[![Slack community](https://img.shields.io/badge/Slack-chat-blue?style=flat-square&labelColor=91B6FB&color=93DA52)](https://clojurians.slack.com/archives/C06DZSPDCPJ)

<img src="images/logo.svg" width="180" align="right">

# clojure-repl-intellij

<!-- Plugin description -->

Free OpenSource IntelliJ plugin for Clojure REPL development. 

Checkout all available [features](https://github.com/afucher/clojure-repl-intellij#features)

<!-- Plugin description end -->

![Clojure LSP Intellij](images/demo.png)

---
## Getting Started
After installing [the plugin](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/23073-clojure-repl) in IntelliJ, you can add a REPL to your Run
configurations.

### Local: Start a nREPL server from IntelliJ
1. Go to `Run` > `Edit Configurations`
2. If you don't have any existing configurations, click `Add new...` or `Add new run configuration`. Otherwise, click the `+` ("Add New Configuration").
3. Select `Clojure REPL` > `Local`
4. Optional: Name your Configuration (e.g. "Local REPL")
5. Click `OK`


### Remote: Connecting to an existing nREPL process
1. Ensure you have an existing nREPL process running outside IntelliJ
2. Within Intellij, go to `Run` > `Edit Configurations`
3. If you don't have any existing configurations, click `Add new...` or `Add new run configuration`. Otherwise, click the `+` ("Add New Configuration").
4. Select `Clojure REPL` > `Remote`
5. In the boxes for `Host` and `Port` copy and paste the values from your existing nREPL process
6. Optional: Name your Configuration (e.g. "Remote REPL")
7. Click `OK`

## Features

- Start a nREPL server from IntelliJ
- Connect to an existing nREPL process
- Load file to REPL (`alt/opt + shift + L`)
- Eval code at point (`alt/opt + shift + E`)
- Eval defun at point (`alt/opt + shift + D`)
- Run ns tests  (`alt/opt + shift + T` `alt/opt + shift + N`)
- Run test at cursor (`alt/opt + shift + T` `alt/opt + shift + T`)
- Re-run last test  (`alt/opt + shift + T` `alt/opt + shift + A`)
- Switch to file namespace (`alt/opt + shift + N`)
- Clear REPL output (`alt/opt + shift + R` `alt/opt + shift + C`)
- Refresh all ns (`alt/opt + shift + R` `alt/opt + shift + A`)
- Refresh changed ns (`alt/opt + shift + R` `alt/opt + shift + R`)
- Stop (interrupt) evaluation of REPL session (`alt/opt + shift + R` `alt/opt + shift + S`)
- Entry history navigation in REPL (`ctrl + PAGE_UP` or `ctrl + PAGE_DOWN`)
- Isolate REPL window and file editors namespace. [Read more about evaluation and namespace](https://github.com/afucher/clojure-repl-intellij/blob/master/doc/eval-and-ns.md)


## Contributing

Contributions are very welcome, check the [issues page](https://github.com/afucher/clojure-repl-intellij/issues) for more information about what are good first issues or open an issue describing the desired support.


## Developing
install babashka from https://github.com/babashka/babashka#installation

`bb run-ide` to spawn a new IntelliJ session with the plugin.

or

`bb install-plugin` to build the plugin, and install it from disk in IntelliJ automatically. You need to pass the IntelliJ plugins path:  
e.g: ```bb install-plugin /home/youruser/.local/share/JetBrains/IdeaIC2024.3```

or

`bb build-plugin` to build the plugin, then install it manually from disk in IntelliJ, the zip should be on `./build/distributions/*.zip`.

## Release

1. `bb tag x.y.z` to tag and push the new tag
2. `bb publish-plugin` to publish to Jetbrains Marketplace (requires JETBRAINS_TOKEN on env).
